My fellow citizens:

I stand here today humbled by the task before us, grateful for the trust you

have bestowed, mindful of the sacrifices borne by our ancestors. I thank

President Bush for his service to our nation, as well as the generosity and

cooperation he has shown throughout this transition.

Forty-four Americans have now taken the presidential Oath. The words have

been spoken during rising tides of prosperity and the still waters of peace.

Yet, every so often the oath is taken amidst gathering clouds and raging

storms. At these moments, America has carried on not simply because of

the skill or vision of those in high office, but because We the people have

remained faithful to the ideals of our forbearers, and true to our founding

documents.

So it has been. So it must be with this generation of Americans.

That we are in the midst Of crisis is now well understood. Our nation is at

war, against a far-reaching network of violence and hatred. Our economy is

badly weakened, a consequence of greed and irresponsibility on the part of

some, but also our collective failure to make hard choices and prepare the

nation for a new age. Homes have been lost; jobs shed; businesses

shuttered. Our health care is too costly; our schools fail too many; and each

day brings further evidence that the ways we use energy strengthen our

adversaries and threaten our planet.

These are the indicators of crisis, subject to data and statistics. Less

measurable but no less profound is a sapping of confidence across our land -

a nagging fear that America's decline is inevitable, and that the next

generation must lower its sights.

Today I say to you that the challenges we face are real. They are serious

and they are many. They will not be met easily Or in a short span of time.

But know this, America - they will be met.

On this day, we gather because we have chosen hope over fear, unity of

purpose over conflict and discord.

On this day, we come to proclaim an end to the petty grievances and false

promises, the recriminations and worn out dogmas, that for far too long

have strangled our-politics.
